Http1.1
The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is the backbone of data communication on the World Wide Web. Since its inception, HTTP has undergone several upgrades to improve performance, security, and efficiency. Two significant versions that are widely used today are HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2. Understanding the differences between these two versions is essential for web developers, network engineers, and anyone involved in the digital landscapeIntroduced in 1997, HTTP/1.1 brought several improvements over its predecessor, HTTP/1.0. It became the de facto standard for web communication for nearly two decades. Some of the key features of HTTP/1.1 include HTTP/1.1 introduced the concept of persistent connections, allowing multiple requests and responses to be sent over a single TCP connection. This reduced the overhead of setting up new connections for each request.In HTTP/1.1, flow control relies on the underlying TCP connection. When this connection initiates, both client and server establish their buffer sizes using their system default settings. If the receiver’s buffer is partially filled with data, it will tell the sender its receive window, i.e., the amount of available space that remains in its buffer. This receive window is advertised in a signal known as an ACK packet, which is the data packet that the receiver sends to acknowledge that it received the opening signal. If this advertised receive window size is zero, the sender will send no more data until the client clears its internal buffer and then requests to resume data transmission. It is important to note here that using receive windows based on the underlying TCP connection can only implement flow control on either end of the connection
Http2
HTTP2 published in 2015, is a major revision designed to address the limitations of HTTP/1.1. It is based on the SPDY protocol developed by Google and offers several enhancements to improve performance and efficiency The Difference Between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2: An In-Depth AnalysisThe Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is the backbone of data communication on the World Wide Web. Since its inception, HTTP has undergone several upgrades to improve performance, security, and efficiency. Two significant versions that are widely used today are HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2. Understanding the differences between these two versions is essential for web developers, network engineers, and anyone involved in the digital landscape. In this blog, we will delve into the key differences between HTTP/1.1 and HTTP/2, highlighting the improvements and how they impact web performance.HTTP/2 multiplexes streams of data within a single TCP connection. As a result, receive windows on the level of the TCP connection are not sufficient to regulate the delivery of individual streams. HTTP/2 solves this problem by allowing the client and server to implement their own flow controls, rather than relying on the transport layer. The application layer communicates the available buffer space, allowing the client and server to set the receive window on the level of the multiplexed streams. This fine-scale flow control can be modified or maintained after the initial connection via a WINDOW_UPDATE frame.Since this method controls data flow on the level of the application layer, the flow control mechanism does not have to wait for a signal to reach its ultimate destination before adjusting the receive window. Intermediary nodes can use the flow control settings information to determine their own resource allocations and modify accordingly. In this way, each intermediary server can implement its own custom resource strategy, allowing for greater connection efficiency.



git init